INTRODUCTION

Server-side scripting is a method of designing websites so that the process or user request is run on the originating server. Server-side scripts provide an interface to the user and are used to limit access to proprietary data and help keep control of the script source code.

server-side programming languages: Python, Ruby, C#, C++, PHP and Java

JSP - Java Server Page
JAVA SERVLET
Java Servlets are programs that run on a web server and used for developing web applications.Servlets are server side programs written in Java. Servlets enable you to extend the functionality of the application server for generating dynamic content in an application. Servlets run on a Web or Application server and act as a middle layer between a request coming from a Web browser or other HTTP client and databases or applications on the HTTP server.

Web Server: Tomcat
Apache Tomcat is an open source software implementation of the Java Servlet and JavaServer Pages technologies and can act as a standalone server for testing servlets and can be integrated with the Apache Web Server.

A servlet life cycle can be defined as the entire process from its creation till the destruction. The following are the paths followed by a servlet:
	-The servlet is initialized by calling the init () method.
	-The servlet calls service() method to process a client's request.
	-The servlet is terminated by calling the destroy() method.
	-Finally, servlet is garbage collected by the garbage collector of the JVM.

init() method
	It is designed to be called only once. It is called when the servlet is first created, and not called again for each user request
service() method
	the main method to perform the actual task. The servlet container (i.e. web server) calls the service() method to handle requests coming from the client( browsers) and to write the 	formatted response back to the client.
doGet() Method
	A GET request results from a normal request for a URL or from an HTML form that has no METHOD specified 
doPost() Method
	A POST request results from an HTML form that specifically lists POST as the METHOD and it should be handled by doPost() method.
destroy() method 
	called only once at the end of the life cycle of a servlet. This method gives your servlet a chance to close database connections, halt background threads, write cookie lists or 	hit counts to disk, and perform other such cleanup activities.


PHP
PHP: The most popular server-side language on the web, PHP is designed to pull and edit information in the database. It’s most commonly bundled with databases written in the SQL language. PHP was designed strictly for the web and remains one of the most widely used languages around. It’s easy to install and deploy, is staying competitive with lots of modern frameworks, and is the foundation for a number of content-management systems.

Several predefined variables in PHP are "superglobals", which means they are available in all scopes throughout a script. There is no need to do global $variable; to access them within functions or methods.
These superglobal variables are:

	$GLOBALS
	$_SERVER
	$_GET
	$_POST
	$_FILES
	$_SESSION
	$_COOKIE
	


